# Deserializing user input

Situation: we need to *deserialize* a string sent to us as the body of an HTTP request into an *object graph* of domain objects (and eventually persist it).

## Solution 1: Standard deserialization tool

Use an automated, configurable standard deserialization tool like [JMSSerializer](http://jmsyst.com/libs/serializer).

New problems when we implement solution 1:

- Because this library uses reflection, it ignores any object boundary that we put into place to protect our object invariants.
- Validation of the created objects only happens afterwards. We end up with objects in an invalid state.
- When the objects are managed by an ORM, they are registered in its *identity map*, which means its changes might be accidentally persisted.

See [src/Assignment01/Solution1/](../src/Assignment01/Solution1/) and [test/Assignment/Solution1/](../test/Assignment/Solution1/)

## Solution 2: Custom deserializer

Provide a custom deserializer, which tries to reconstruct the object and catches/collects exceptions.


```php
<?php

$data = json_decode($serializedData, true);

$user = new User();

try {
    $user->setLat($data['lat']);
} catch (\InvalidArgumentException $exception) {
    $errors[] = $exception->getMessage();
}

// and so on...

// return errors or persist $user
```

New problems when we implement solution 2:

- We can't provide a full list of problems to the user, since exceptions will break the flow of execution.
- To maximize our effectiveness in validation-catching, we can never combine values that naturally belong together (e.g. latitude and longitude).
- But we can't even be sure we generate the full list of errors, since there may be multiple pre-conditions for each method call.

## Solution 3 (the winning solution): Deserialize to a DTO first

Don't deserialize right into domain objects. Instead, either:

1. Introduce an intermediate object (called DTO) and copy the data into it (you may use JMSSerializer).
2. Validate the DTO using a tool that supports object validation, like the Symfony Validator.

Or:

1. Validate the request parameters directly. You can use the Symfony Validator, or for the purpose of this workshop, the [Laravel Validation component](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/validation).

In both cases: provide the user with validation results or (when the data is valid) let the application layer process the data.
