# Deserializing persistent data

Situation: we need to deserialize a string of event data we have previously persisted ourselves in the application's event store.

```php
<?php

$serializedData = <<<EOD
{
    "userId": 1234,
    "grantedAt": "2017-09-19T10:00:00+0000"
}
EOD;
```

## Solution 1: Use a standard serialization tool

We will end up having the same problems as previously discussed. However, we don't care about object invariants. We don't have to protect them while deserializing, since they have already been protected when we first created the object, before even serializing it.

```php
<?php

use JMS\Serializer\SerializerBuilder;
use JMS\Serializer\JsonDeserializationVisitor;
use JMS\Serializer\Naming\IdenticalPropertyNamingStrategy;

$serializer = SerializerBuilder::create()
            ->setDeserializationVisitor('json', new JsonDeserializationVisitor(new IdenticalPropertyNamingStrategy()))
            ->addDefaultHandlers()
            ->build();
        $deserializedObject = $serializer->deserialize($serializedData, AccessGranted::class, 'json');
```

## Solution 2: Use a simple factory and call setters

```php
<?php

// assume decoding the JSON data isn't problematic
$decodedData = json_decode($serializedData, true);

// allow empty constructor arguments
$event = new AccessGranted();

// allow setters to protect at least some object invariants
$event->setUserId($decodedData['userId']);
$event->setGrantedAt(new \DateTimeImmutable($decodedData['grantedAt']));
```

If we do this, we will end up with mutable event objects, which is *bad design* anyway, mainly because it may lead to corrupted state and unpredictable behaviour.

We can by the way also accomplish by configuring setter methods for JMSSerializer to call upon deserialization.

## Solution 3: Decode, then deserialize

The best solution is to split decoding (JSON-encoded string to simple associative array) and reconstitution of the object based on the normalized data by calling a static factory method on the class of the object that is going to be decoded.

```php
<?php

$decodedData = json_decode($encodedData, true);

$event = AccessGranted::deserialize($decodedData);
```

Implementation guidelines:

- Fail hard on structural details, prevent PHP notices on missing keys.
- Assume semantic correctness, don't do domain logic validation.

Note that the intermediate array is basically a DTO, free of logic, able to travel across the object boundary.

## A new problem: code updates

We now add an important detail to the `AccessGranted` event: the granted `AccessLevel`. This information is missing from previously stored events. When we ask old `AccessGranted` events to deserialize themselves, the structure needs to be updated to also contain a key for the access level. By default, we use the "low" access level.

## Solution 4a: Add the code in the `deserialize()` method of `AccessGranted`

This solution is perfectly fine, but it doesn't scale well in terms of maintainability.

## Solution 4b: Implement *upcasting*

Introducing the concept of an "upcaster" can be very useful if you want to keep the `deserialize()` method clean and up-to-date.

An upcaster (which implements the `Upcaster` interface), accepts a so-called `EventEnvelope`, analyzes the type and revision and if necessary modifies the payload. The revision will be incremented automatically. There may be another upcaster that knows how to upcast the payload to the next revision. When the "chain" of upcasters has finished, the event object can be deserialized by calling its `deserialize()` method.

Implementation steps:

- Define a new `Upcaster` which takes care of adding the access level to the payload. Add a unit test for this.
- Implement an `EventSerializer` which decodes the JSON-encoded string, creates an `EventEnvelope` and loops over a list of `Upcaster` instances to allow them to upcast the event. Then deserialize the event object using the final payload. Add a unit test for this.
